*<div align=right>Pipework reference:* ***[`jpetazzo/pipework`](https://github.com/jpetazzo/pipework/blob/master/README.md)</div>***
**[`Readme`](README.md)** / **[`Intro`](0. Introduction.md)** / **[`Install`](1. Install.md)** / **[`Usage`](2. Usage.md)** / **[`Examples`](3. Examples.md)** / **[`Config`](4. Config.md)**

## Install

    docker pull dreamcat4/pipework

This image is based on `Ubuntu-14.04 trusty`. And was tested on `lxc-docker-1.6.0` and `Ubuntu-15.04 Desktop`.

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
 

- [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [Docker v1.6.0 or higher](#docker-v160-or-higher)
  - [Crane v1.1.0 or higher](#crane-v110-or-higher)
  - [Docker Compose v1.3.0 or higher](#docker-compose-v130-or-higher)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

<a name="requirements"/>
### Requirements

#### Docker v1.6.0 or higher

Needs `docker-1.6.0` (or higher). `crane 1.1.0` (or higher). `docker-compose-1.3.0` (or higher).

* This image `dreamcat4/pipework` requires the following docker run arguments: `--privileged=true`, `--pid=host`, `--net=host`, and `-v /var/run/docker.sock:/docker.sock`. Or else pipework won't be able to set up networking on your other containers.

This image will flat out not work on any previous version of Docker before `1.5.0`. As the pipework script needs to see the host pid namespace, which requires `--pid=host` flag. The first version of Docker to implement this flag is Docker `1.5.0`. However since docker-compose version `1.3.0` requires docker `1.6.0` we have upped the overall docker requirement to `1.6.0`. *This should not be an issue for most installations now that Docker `1.6.0` has been released.*

#### Crane v1.1.0 or higher

If using the [Crane](https://github.com/michaelsauter/crane/blob/master/README.md) orchestration tool, then [v1.1.0 or higher](https://github.com/michaelsauter/crane/releases/latest). Which should be fine for most users now.

It's not actually a requirement to have any orchestration too in order to run this image. But it is more convenient, especially for specifying the ENV vars etc.

#### Docker Compose v1.3.0 or higher

Or if you are using the Docker Compose tool, then `v1.3.0` and higher is needed. Which should be fine now also.

It's not actually a requirement to have any orchestration too in order to run this image. But it is more convenient, especially for specifying the ENV vars etc.

