*<div align=right>Pipework reference:* ***[`jpetazzo/pipework`](https://github.com/jpetazzo/pipework/blob/master/README.md)</div>***
**[`Readme`](README.md)** / **[`Intro`](0. Introduction.md)** / **[`Install`](1. Install.md)** / **[`Usage`](2. Usage.md)** / **[`Examples`](3. Examples.md)** / **[`Config`](4. Config.md)**

## Usage

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->


- [Supported Clients](#supported-clients)
  - [Command line usage (single invocation)](#command-line-usage-single-invocation)
  - [Docker Compose](#docker-compose)
  - [Crane](#crane)
- [Run modes](#run-modes)
  - [manual](#manual)
  - [batch](#batch)
  - [daemon](#daemon)
  - [both](#both)
  - [all](#all)
- [Macro expansions](#macro-expansions)
  - [@CONTAINER_NAME@](#@container_name@)
  - [@CONTAINER_ID@](#@container_id@)
  - [@HOSTNAME@](#@hostname@)
  - [@INSTANCE@](#@instance@)
- [Known Errors](#known-errors)
  - [API version mismatch](#api-version-mismatch)
  - [No output, returns immediately](#no-output-returns-immediately)
  - [mount: permission denied](#mount-permission-denied)
  - [RTNETLINK answers: No such process](#rtnetlink-answers-no-such-process)
  - [No output, hangs forever](#no-output-hangs-forever)
- [Other Notes](#other-notes)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

### Supported Clients

If you are already using an orchestration tool, then quickest way to familiarize yourself is to look at one of the example `.yml` files on the [Examples](3. Examples.md) page. After that, you may wish to read further about the various different configuration constructs, which are: [environment variables](4. Config.md#environment-variables), [run modes](#run-modes), [macro expansions](#macro_expansions).

<a name="cli_usage"/>
#### Command line usage (single invocation)

Full documentation on the pipework script can be found at [jpetazzo/pipework](https://github.com/jpetazzo/pipework/blob/master/README.md).

Cmdline Usage (docker run):

    docker run -v /var/run/docker.sock:/docker.sock --privileged=true --pid=host --net=host \
      dreamcat4/pipework --help

<a name="compose_usage"/>
#### Docker Compose

To see how to use pipework in compose, take a look at the [example docker-compose.yml](3. Examples.md#compose_example).

<a name="crane_usage"/>
#### Crane

To see how to use pipework in crane, take a look at the [example crane.yml](3. Examples.md#crane_example).

### Run modes

The run mode or run modes determine the behaviour of the pipework container, and the ways that it will invoke the `pipework` command. The default value is `manual`, if no `run_mode=` [environment variable](4. Config.md#run_mode) was set. However if your containers are being run from an orchestration tool such as `crane`, `docker compose`, or `kubernetes`. Then it is always best to set the `run_mode` to be `both`, or `batch,daemon`.

Expaination of each of the permitted run modes:

<a name="manual"/>
#### manual

Manually specified commands. Just as you would run `pipework` script from the command line on your host system. Does not accept @TEMPLATE@ [macro expansions](#macro-expansions).

If you execute `docker run dreamcat4/pipework <args>` on the command line:

* The arguments `<args>` are passed directly into jpetazzo's pipework script.
* A [`host_route`](4. Config.md#host_route) may be set up. If the option `-e host_route=true` was specified.
* Then `manual` mode will exit.

Or in non-interactive environments:

* You may instead specify multiple arguments as [`.*cmd.*=`](4. Config.md#cmd) environment variables.
* If `cmd` is set by an environment variable, then any command line `<args>` at the end of `docker run` will be ignored.

<a name="batch"/>
#### batch

* Batch mode operates on the output of `docker ps -q`.
* Only works on containers which are currently running at the present time.
* Batch mode is single-shot, and will complete after processing once the current list of running containers.
* You may use this mode alone, once you are sure all of your application containers have finished starting.
* Or you may use batch in combination with [`daemon`](#daemon) mode (recommended. To ensure that all of your containers (present and future) are not overlooked.

<a name="daemon"/>
#### daemon

* In `daemon` mode, the pipework container will never exit.
* This mode launches a processing loop that listens for output from `docker events --filter='event=start'`.
* Once `daemon` mode is started, then new containers being brought online after that time will checked for a valid `pipework_cmd=` environment variable.
* But only if the container also fulfils other user-configurable filtering criteria.
* If the `pipework_cmd` is permitted to be executed, then the `pipework` script will be invoked immediately upon that container. As soon as it can be serviced by the processing loop.
* `daemon` mode is recommended in combination with `batch` mode, for orchestration environments such as docker compose, crane, and kubernetes.
* You can run pipework's `daemon` mode continuously from system boot. If you prefer to keep the `dreamcat4/pipework` image outside of your orchestration tool's `.yml` file.
* Create the pipework container with `--restart=always` flag to be started automatically at boot time (recommended).
* Be sure to specify `batch` mode too, since the container startup order is not guaranteed, and client containers may be started before the pipework container itself has a change to drop into `daemon` mode and start listening.

<a name="both"/>
#### both

A synonym for `batch,daemon`. Batch mode will be executed first, then the container will drop into daemon mode.

<a name="all"/>
#### all

A synonym for `manual,batch,daemon`. The single-instance invokation `manual` mode will be run first. Then `batch` mode. Then finally `daemon` mode.

<a name="macro_expansions"/>
### Macro expansions

Only valid for `batch` and `daemon` run modes. These macros can be used within the `pipework_cmd` environment string, and will be expanded / auto-filled from the container's metadata.

#### @CONTAINER_NAME@

The docker container name. As set by `docker run --name=`. But minus any leading `/`.

#### @CONTAINER_ID@

The docker container id. Shortened to the first 12 characters.

#### @HOSTNAME@

The container's HOSTNAME. As set by `docker run --hostname=`.

#### @INSTANCE@

If the container name contains any numeric components, then the last numeric component in the container name. For example `prod_myapp_1` --> is determined to be instance number `1` of `prod_myapp`.

This variable is primarily useful for specifying some part of an ip address.

#### @COMPOSE_PROJECT_NAME@

If the container is started by the `docker-compose` command, it is project name like set in `docker-compose --project-name `.

This variable is useful for differing the containter by the project. For example, you want to set different internal bridge for each project.

<a name="known_errors"/>
### Known Errors

#### API version mismatch

This is usually because the version of docker inside this container is too different than the veryion of docker you are running it in. For example: [Docker v1.7.1 compatibility issue](https://github.com/dreamcat4/docker-images/issues/19).

For older [Docker v1.7.1 compatibility](https://github.com/dreamcat4/docker-images/issues/19), please use Larry's fork over here ---> [larrycai/pipework:1.7.1](https://hub.docker.com/r/larrycai/pipework/tags/).

Or to rebuild with any different docker version, may need to rebuild with modification to the Dockerfile. For example [something like this](https://github.com/larrycai/docker-images-1/commit/7e701cc224f2f696af6e9535c7f903c03d2d5ce0).

#### No output, returns immediately

    <no output whatsoever>
    <command returns immediately>

If using `docker compose run` as a single invokation, without `pipework_daemon=true`. Then Compose may be too slow to attach to a tty in time to grab any output. If this happens, you might not see anything output to the console. You can avoid this problem by setting `-e pipework_wait=1`.

#### mount: permission denied

    mount: permission denied
    Could not make a tmpfs mount. Did you use -privileged?

You didn't use `--privileged` flag. Or you instead tried to set many individual `--cap-add=` flags, but not enough of them, or the right ones.

#### RTNETLINK answers: No such process

    RTNETLINK answers: No such process

If you try to run this pipework image without the necessary `--pid=host` flag, pipework will exit saying 'no such process'. OR if your container is shut down (stopped).

#### No output, hangs forever

    <no output whatsoever>
    <command hangs, CTRL+C unresponsive, does not ever exit>

This happens if you try to run pipework cmd without the necessary `--net=host` flag. Pipework will hang forever and do nothing. Oh dear :( seems like we could really do with some better error handling for that situation.

<a name="other_notes"/>
### Other Notes

* Specifying each capabilities individually with `--cap-add=` may avoid some of `--privileged`. But it messier on the command line. Not sure precisely which ones are required for pipework.

* For reference - in case ipv6 isn't working for you: [pipework issue #36 - ipv6 support](https://github.com/jpetazzo/pipework/issues/36)

```sh
_ubuntu_default_ipv6_forwarding ()
{
    # these were the default ipv6 settings on my ubuntu 14.10 desktop
    sysctl net.ipv6.conf.all.accept_ra=1
    sysctl net.ipv6.conf.all.forwarding=0
}

_set_ipv6_forwarding ()
{
    # these are reccommended, at least on linode VPS servers
    sysctl net.ipv6.conf.all.accept_ra=2
    sysctl net.ipv6.conf.all.forwarding=1
}
```
