*<div align=right>Pipework reference:* ***[`jpetazzo/pipework`](https://github.com/jpetazzo/pipework/blob/master/README.md)</div>***
**[`Readme`](README.md)** / **[`Intro`](0. Introduction.md)** / **[`Install`](1. Install.md)** / **[`Usage`](2. Usage.md)** / **[`Examples`](3. Examples.md)** / **[`Config`](4. Config.md)**

## Config
<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
 

- [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
  - [Global Scope](#global-scope)
  - [Local Scope](#local-scope)
  - [Globbing pattern](#globbing-pattern)
- [On the Pipework container](#on-the-pipework-container)
  - [run_mode](#run_mode)
  - [host_routes](#host_routes)
  - [host_route_arping](#host_route_arping)
  - [host_route_protocols](#host_route_protocols)
  - [cmd](#cmd)
  - [key](#key)
  - [sleep](#sleep)
  - [debug](#debug)
  - [event_filters](#event_filters)
  - [up_time](#up_time)
  - [cleanup_wait](#cleanup_wait)
  - [retry_delay](#retry_delay)
  - [inter_delay](#inter_delay)
  - [route_add_delay](#route_add_delay)
- [On the App container(s)](#on-the-app-containers)
  - [pipework_key](#pipework_key)
  - [pipework_cmd](#pipework_cmd)
  - [pipework_host_route](#pipework_host_route)
  - [pipework_host_routes](#pipework_host_routes)
  - [pipework_host_route_arping](#pipework_host_route_arping)
  - [cleanup_wait](#cleanup_wait-1)
  - [retry_delay](#retry_delay-1)
  - [inter_delay](#inter_delay-1)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

### Environment Variables

Configuration of `pipework` is performed by setting environment variables. There are 2 kinds of configuration:

* Environment variables which are set on your master pipwork container. i.e. Global options. 
* Environment variables which you set on each of your app / service containers.

Environment variables can be set by appending the `docker run` command with successive `-e` switches. Or by adding them to the existing service definitions in your orchestration tool's `.yml` file.

When a `dreamcat4/pipework` container is run, it will boot up, then `docker inspect` other running containers on the same docker host. As dictated by the user-specified [`run_mode`](#run_mode) and certain other kinds of configurable [filter criteria 1](#event_filters), and [2](#key). For any inspected container, if an environment variable matching the [globbing battern](#globbing) of [`pipework_cmd=`](#pipework_cmd) is encountered. Then those command line arguments are passed on to @jpetazzo's [pipework](https://github.com/jpetazzo/pipework/blob/master/README.md) script for processing.

<a name="global"/>
#### Global Scope

The environment variable sets a configuration option which affects *all of the containers for which pipework commands are being appled to*.

<a name="local"/>
#### Local Scope

The environment variable sets a local configuration option which affects *only to that specific container upon which the environment variable has been set*. I.e. only when pipework commands are being applied to that specific container.

<a name="globbing"/>
#### Globbing pattern

Some configuration variables have a globbing pattern. For these variables, you may add any arbitrary string prefix or suffix to the environment variable name. And they will all be matched / found by regex.

Add a custom prefix or suffix (or both) to declare multiple pipework cmds. For example:

    pipework_cmd_for_eth0=eth0 @CONTAINER_NAME@ dhcp # host NIC 1
    pipework_cmd_for_eth1=eth1 @CONTAINER_NAME@ dhcp # host NIC 2

Will result in both commands being executed on the same container. To set up multiple networking interfaces with pipework. Each command in the sequence will be processed serially (one at a time). Commands are run in alphabetical order, according to the unix `sort` program. Thefore pipework_cmd_A=` will always be executed before `pipework_cmd_B=`.

Another example:

    apache_pipework_cmd=eth0 -i eth1 @CONTAINER_NAME@ dhcp # bound to host NIC
    mysql__pipework_cmd=br1  -i eth2 @CONTAINER_NAME@ dhcp # bound to private bridge

You may also use the same prefix or suffix to selectively specify the `host_route` option for only certain interfaces. For example, if we then set:

    apache_host_route=true

It would mean that the Docker Host can now access the container's `eth1` interface. But not it's private `br1` link.

### On the Pipework container

* Setting environment variables on the `dreamcat4/pipework` container is how you set global configuration options.
* You may omit the optional prefix `pipework_` at the beginning of any environment variable names.
* For example: `debug=true` is the same as `pipework_debug=true`. Enabling either option will have the same effect.
* Most users only need to set the [`run_mode`](#run_mode) and [`host_routes`](#host_routes) options.
* Other global configuration options can largely be ignored.

<a name="run_mode"/>
#### run_mode

*Default value:* **[`manual`](2. Usage.md#manual)** -  *Sets:* **[`Run Mode(s)`](2. Usage.md#run-modes)** -  *Scope:* **[`Global`](#global)**

A comma seperated list of the run mode(s) to launch. See the [Run Modes](2. Usage.md#run-modes) usage section for more information about each run mode. This example shows the recommended configuration for any orchestration tool (e.g. Compose, Crane, Kubernetes):

    pipework_run_mode=batch,daemon

The allowed values are:

    pipework_run_mode="manual,batch,daemon,both,all"

You can specify any combination	 of run modes in any order. However they will always be executed in the following order: `manual`, then `batch`, then `daemon`.

<a name="host_routes"/>
#### host_routes

*Default value:* **`false`** -  *Affects:* **[`All Run Modes`](2. Usage.md#run-modes)** -  *Scope:* **[`Global`](#global)**

If set to `true` (or any value). Sets up networking to allow the host computer to see and communicate over pipework networking with the application containers. It creates for the host a L2 macvlan bridge to each app / client container that has had a `pipework_cmd` invoked upon it. Example:

    pipework_host_routes=true

<a name="host_route_arping"/>
#### host_route_arping

*Default value:* **`false`** -  *Affects:* **[`All Run Modes`](2. Usage.md#run-modes)** -  *Scope:* **[`Global`](#global)**

If set to `true` (or any value) will ensure that the more rigorous `arping` command is used to determine network liveness. Only use if this container's ipv4 address (or if other hosts in highest subnet ipv4 ranges) will not respond to regular ICMP ping requests.  Example:

    pipework_host_route_arping=true

Disabled by default because it introduces an substantial delay of 2 additional seconds per ipv4 host route. This variable has no effect, and is not needed for ipv6 addresses.

<a name="host_route_protocols"/>
#### host_route_protocols

*Default value:* **`inet`** -  *Affects:* **[`All Run Modes`](2. Usage.md#run-modes)** -  *Scope:* **[`Global`](#global)**

This variable has no effect, and is not needed for ipv4 only addresses.

If set to `inet`, or left as nothing / null string, then `inet` is the default value. Which means IPV4. Only host routes are setup for a container's IPV4 address. This is to avoid any potential bugs related to this entrypoint.sh script's IPV6 functionality. The OS may itself auto-generate an IPV6 address for the host route bridge interface, but we will not add a path to the container's IPV6 address (if it has one). Other possible settings are: `inet inet6`, and just `inet6`. The IPV6 functionality is considered to be untested.  Example:

    pipework_host_route_protocols="inet inet6"

This is a global setting and cannot be configured on a per-container basis.

#### cmd

*[Globbing pattern:](#globbing)* **`.*cmd.*=`** -  Default value:* **`none`** -  *Affects:* **[`Manual Mode`](2. Usage.md#manual)** -  *Scope:* **[`Local`](#local)**

If set on the master pipework container, then will be used instead of the extra cmd line arguments during single-instance invokation (for run `manual`). The @TEMPLATE@ macro expansion placeholders cannot be used with this run mode.

    pipework_cmd="eth0 7fe4d4dc916c dhcp"

#### key

*Default value:* **`none`** -  *Affects:* **[`Batch Mode`](2. Usage.md#batch)**,**[`Daemon Mode`](2. Usage.md#daemon)** -  *Scope:* **[`Global`](#global)**

When `pipework_key` is set on the master pipework container, then any application or service container wishing to be configured by pipework must also have the variable `pipework_key` set to the same value. Or else it will be ignored / not recognised. Example:

    pipework_key="APScQYDITSrNt+9YS13INVP6m/3oH/iSlh4Gc7R or any un-guessable string"

<a name="sleep"/>
#### sleep

*Default value:* **`0`** -  *Affects:* **[`All Run Modes`](2. Usage.md#run-modes)** -  *Scope:* **[`Global`](#global)**

The number of seconds to `sleep` before executing the specified run mode(s). It is not necessary to ever set this variable, except under certain very special conditions. Example:

    pipework_sleep=3

Not to be confused with the forever-blocking `pipework --wait` cmdline option to be used within your client containers.

<a name="debug"/>
#### debug

*Default value:* **`false`** -  *Affects:* **[`All Run Modes`](2. Usage.md#run-modes)** -  *Scope:* **[`Global`](#global)**

Turns on extra shell script debugging / trace output with `set -x` / `sh -x`.

<a name="event_filters"/>
#### event_filters

*Default value:* **`none`** -  *Affects:* **[`Daemon Mode`](2. Usage.md#daemon)** -  *Scope:* **[`Global`](#global)**

Comma seperated list of event filtering argumends. Can be used to restrict the set of containers which pipework inspects. And containers which do not match the criteria will be ignored. For example:

    pipework_event_filters="image=redis,container=myapp,container=7fe4d4dc916c"

Will generate the following extra arguments to `docker events` command:

    -f 'image=redis' -f 'container=myapp' -f 'container=7fe4d4dc916c'

Affects daemon mode only. The allowed syntax is documented in the Docker manual. See: [Docker Commandline Reference - 'events'](http://docs.docker.com/reference/commandline/cli/#events)

<a name="up_time"/>
#### up_time

*Default value:* **`none (infinity)`** -  *Affects:* **[`Daemon Mode`](2. Usage.md#daemon)** -  *Scope:* **[`Global`](#global)**

Number of seconds to stay active in daemon mode. After which time, the daemon mode will quit. By default, this variable is not set to anything. And daemon mode continues listening forever. Until the pipework container is stopped. Example:

    pipework_up_time=60

<a name="cleanup_wait"/>
#### cleanup_wait

*Default value:* **`none (disabled)`** -  *Affects:* **[`Daemon Mode`](2. Usage.md#daemon)** -  *Scope:* **[`Global`](#global)**

Wait N seconds after a container has dies before running next pipework command. By default, this variable is set to a value of 0 seconds for the default dhcp client `busybox udhcpc`. Example:

    pipework_cleanup_wait=30

<a name="retry_delay"/>
#### retry_delay

*Default value:* **`none (disabled)`** -  *Affects:* **[`All Run Modes`](2. Usage.md#run-modes)** -  *Scope:* **[`Global`](#global)**

If pipework fails, then wait N seconds and retry the same pipework command. By default, this variable is not set to anything. And pipework will be run only once, regardless of it's success / failure exit code. The pipework command will be re-tried only once. Example:

    pipework_retry_delay=5

<a name="inter_delay"/>
#### inter_delay

*Default value:* **`none (disabled)`** -  *Affects:* **[`All Run Modes`](2. Usage.md#run-modes)** -  *Scope:* **[`Global`](#global)**

Wait N seconds in-between the running of successive pipework commands. By default, this variable is not set to anything. And pipework will not wait. Example:

    pipework_inter_delay=5

<a name="route_add_delay"/>
#### route_add_delay

*Default value:* **`none (disabled)`** -  *Affects:* **[`All Run Modes`](2. Usage.md#run-modes)** -  *Scope:* **[`Global`](#global)**

Wait N seconds after creating a host route macvlan bridge, before adding the route to the container's IP address. By default, this variable is not set to anything. And pipework will not wait. Example:

    pipework_route_add_delay=1

***Note:***

This setting might not be needed. However it was found necessary during my testing with the pipework `v1.1.3` image (or higher) while running on an ubuntu 15.04 host machine. Just a 1 second delay was enough time to give the new bridge to settle down before adding the container's host route onto it.

Without introducing the artificial delay, the command would appear to succeed inside the container. While outside no new entry to be seen on the routing table / no ping.

<a name="local_vars"/>
### On the App container(s)

Set these on each of your individual application / service containers. Which are the clients of your pipework instance. Each container found by the pipework instance will be inspected and acted upon, providing that other filtering critera are also met. You must always to use the `pipework_` prefix on your application containers, at all times. All other environment variables will be ignored / not recognised.

<a name="key"/>
#### pipework_key

*Default value:* **`none`** -  *Affects:* **[`Batch Mode`](2. Usage.md#batch)**,**[`Daemon Mode`](2. Usage.md#daemon)** -  *Scope:* **[`Local`](#local)**

When `pipework_key` is set on the master pipework container, then any application or service container wishing to be configured by pipework must also have the variable `pipework_key` set to the same value. Or else it will be ignored / not recognised. Example:

    pipework_key="APScQYDITSrNt+9YS13INVP6m/3oH/iSlh4Gc7R or any un-guessable string"

<a name="pipework_cmd"/>
#### pipework_cmd

*[Globbing pattern:](#globbing)* **`.*pipework_cmd.*=`** -  *Default value:* **`none`** -  *Affects:* **[`Batch Mode`](2. Usage.md#batch)**,**[`Daemon Mode`](2. Usage.md#daemon)** -  *Scope:* **[`Local`](#local)**

The pipework command to run for this container. Any @TEMPLATE@ macro placeholders will be expanded / substituted for real values before the pipework command is executed. Example:

    pipework_cmd="eth0 @CONTAINER_NAME@ dhcp"

<a name="host_route"/>
#### pipework_host_route

*[Globbing pattern:](#globbing)* **`.*pipework_host_route.*=`** -  *Default value:* **`false`** -  *Affects:* **[`Batch Mode`](2. Usage.md#batch)**,**[`Daemon Mode`](2. Usage.md#daemon)** -  *Scope:* **[`Local`](#local)**

If set to `true` (or any value) will allow the host computer can see and communicate with the container. Creates for the host a macvlan bridge on an individual per-interface and per-container basis (rather than globally or at the whole container level). Example:

    pipework_host_route=true

This variable has no effect, and is not needed if you already set the other option `pipework_host_routes=true` on either the app container or the pipework container.

<a name="host_routes"/>
#### pipework_host_routes

*Default value:* **`false`** -  *Affects:* **[`Batch Mode`](2. Usage.md#batch)**,**[`Daemon Mode`](2. Usage.md#daemon)** -  *Scope:* **[`Local`](#local)**

If set to `true` (or any value). Same as `pipework_host_route` except applys to all `pipework_cmd`s on the same container. Example:

    pipework_host_routes=true

This variable has no effect, and is not needed if you already set the global option `pipework_host_routes=true` on the pipework container.

#### pipework_host_route_arping

*Default value:* **`false`** -  *Affects:* **[`Batch Mode`](2. Usage.md#batch)**,**[`Daemon Mode`](2. Usage.md#daemon)** -  *Scope:* **[`Local`](#local)**

If set to `true` (or any value) will ensure that the more rigorous `arping` command is used to determine network liveness. Only use if this container's ipv4 address (or if other hosts in highest subnet ipv4 ranges) will not respond to regular ICMP ping requests.  Example:

    pipework_host_route_arping=true

Disabled by default because it introduces an substantial delay of 2 additional seconds per ipv4 host route. This variable has no effect, and is not needed for ipv6 addresses.

<a name="cleanup_wait"/>
#### cleanup_wait

*Default value:* **`none (disabled)`** -  *Affects:* **[`Daemon Mode`](2. Usage.md#daemon)** -  *Scope:* **[`Local`](#local)**

Wait N seconds after a container has dies before running next pipework command. By default, this variable is set to a value of 0 seconds for the default dhcp client `busybox udhcpc`. Example:

    pipework_cleanup_wait=30

<a name="retry_delay"/>
#### retry_delay

*Default value:* **`none (disabled)`** -  *Affects:* **[`All Run Modes`](2. Usage.md#run-modes)** -  *Scope:* **[`Local`](#local)**

If pipework fails, then wait N seconds and retry the same pipework command. By default, this variable is not set to anything. And pipework will be run only once, regardless of it's success / failure exit code. The pipework command will be re-tried only once. Example:

    pipework_retry_delay=5

<a name="inter_delay"/>
#### inter_delay

*Default value:* **`none (disabled)`** -  *Affects:* **[`All Run Modes`](2. Usage.md#run-modes)** -  *Scope:* **[`Local`](#local)**

Wait N seconds in-between the running of successive pipework commands. By default, this variable is not set to anything. And pipework will not wait. Example:

    pipework_inter_delay=5

