## Builder Setup Guide

Apt package builders for tvheadend on ubuntu.

### For Tvheadend developers only

This guide is expressly for members of tvheadend project only. If you are not involved with officially distributing tvheadend software, there is no reason to go to this trouble of building apt packages of tvheadend. You should instead just download and enjoy the official pre-built tvheadend APT packages. Available from:

https://tvheadend.org/projects/tvheadend/wiki/AptRepository

It is not necessary, and a greate waste of resources to create duplicate additional server loads which build exaclty the same packages as are already being officially provided by the tvheadend project.

### Requirements

You will need:

* A Github Account (https://github.com/)
* A Bitbucket account (https://bitbucket.org/)
* A Docker Hub account (https://hub.docker.com/)
* A Bintray account (https://bintray.com/)
* A cron job to trigger builds with your docker hub API key*.

Note:

* User accounts should all be registered under your own regular username. e.g. `dreamcat4`, `negge`, `perexg`, `proyaffle`, etc.

* An understanding of Git and Docker will be needed for managing this build process.

* The cron job (last step) should be run from a secure computer that you yourself control. As it requires access to your docker hub API key in plain text. The cron job does not build anything locally. It just triggers the remote server(s) to start a new build run.

### Overview

The basic steps are as follows:

Step 1:

* Create public docker image of tvheadend's build dependancies (optional)
  * On Github
    * Create git repo of build files for the `tvh.ubuntu.build.deps` docker image
  * On Dockerhub
    * Create new public repo named `tvh.ubuntu.build.deps`
      * As automated build
      * Get build trigger api token
  * On developer PC / server machine (via ssh) as regular user
    * Setup cron job to automatically re-build deps 1x per week OR 1x per month

Step 2:

* On Bitbucket
  * Create private git repo
    * Call it `dpi` - for 'Dockerhub private images'
* In local working copy of your `dpi` bitbucket private repo:
  * Open `tvh.ubuntu.build/master/Dockerfile` and set bintray account variables for your own bintray account:
  * Open `tvh.ubuntu.build/stable/Dockerfile` and repeat the previous step for the STABLE image builder too.

Step 3:

* Create private docker images to build the tvheadend APT packages for ubuntu
  * First create your 1 free private docker hub repo (you are only allowed 1)
    * So call it `dpi` - for 'Dockerhub Private Images' or something like that.
      * Create tagA named `tvh.build.ubuntu.master` --> builds docker image `tvh.build.ubuntu.master`
        * Point it to your bitbucket private repo
      * Create tagB named `tvh.build.ubuntu.stable` --> builds docker image `tvh.build.ubuntu.stable`
        * Point it to your bitbucket private repo

*As part of the image building process on Dockerhub, our Dockerfiles contain the necessary instructions to auto-upload the resulting .deb files to bintray.com.

We do not need to run or download these builder images to another computer. The work of the 'builder' images is already 100% done. The resulting `.deb` pkg binaries can be managed and distributed at bintray.com.*





